CHAPTER  ONE 

ing  past  in  broad  daylight,  though  people  down  in  the  street  did; 
they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl sped over-
head. Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. 
Dursley,  however,  had  a  perfectly  normal,  owl-free  morning.  He 
yelled  at  five  different  people.  He  made  several  important  tele-
phone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood 
until  lunchtime,  when  he  thought  he’d  stretch  his  legs  and  walk 
across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery. 

He’d  forgotten  all  about  the  people  in  cloaks  until  he  passed  a 
group  of  them  next  to  the  baker’s.  He  eyed  them  angrily  as  he 
passed.  He  didn’t  know  why,  but  they  made  him  uneasy.  This 
bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single 
collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a large 
doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were 
saying. 

“The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard —” 
“— yes, their son, Harry —” 
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at 
the  whisperers  as  if  he  wanted  to  say  something  to  them,  but 
thought better of it. 

He  dashed  back  across  the  road,  hurried  up  to  his  office, 
snapped  at  his  secretary  not  to  disturb  him, seized  his  telephone, 
and  had  almost  finished  dialing  his  home  number  when  he 
changed his mind. He put the receiver back down and stroked his 
mustache, thinking . . . no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn’t such 
an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called Pot-
ter who had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even 
sure his nephew was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It  
 

(cid:145) 4 (cid:145) 

THE  BOY  WHO  LIVED 

might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no  point in wor-
rying Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her 
sister. He didn’t blame her — if he’d had a sister like that . . . but all 
the same, those people in cloaks . . . 

He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon 
and when he left the building at five o’clock, he was still so worried 
that he walked straight into someone just outside the door. 

“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost 
fell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man 
was wearing a violet cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being al-
most knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split into a 
wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, 
“Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Re-
joice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like your-
self should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!” 

And  the  old  man  hugged  Mr.  Dursley  around  the  middle  and 

walked off. 

Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a 
complete  stranger.  He  also  thought  he  had  been  called  a  Muggle, 
whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set off 
for  home,  hoping  he  was  imagining  things,  which  he  had  never 
hoped before, because he didn’t approve of imagination. 

As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he 
saw — and it didn’t improve his mood — was the tabby cat he’d 
spotted  that  morning.  It  was  now  sitting  on  his  garden  wall.  He 
was sure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its 
eyes. 

“Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly. 

 

(cid:145) 5 (cid:145) 

CHAPTER  ONE 

The cat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look. Was this nor-
mal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying to pull himself to-
gether, he let himself into the house. He was still determined not to 
mention anything to his wife. 

Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over din-
ner all about Mrs. Next Door’s problems with her daughter and how 
Dudley had learned a new word (“Won’t!”). Mr. Dursley tried to 
act normally. When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the 
living room in time to catch the last report on the evening news: 
“And  finally,  bird-watchers  everywhere  have  reported  that  the 
nation’s  owls  have  been  behaving  very  unusually  today.  Although 
owls  normally  hunt  at  night  and  are  hardly  ever  seen  in  daylight, 
there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every 
direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls 
have  suddenly  changed  their  sleeping  pattern.”  The  newscaster  al-
lowed  himself  a  grin.  “Most  mysterious.  And  now,  over  to  Jim 
McGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls 
tonight, Jim?” 

“Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about that, but 
it’s not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as 
far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to 
tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve had a 
downpour  of  shooting  stars!  Perhaps  people  have  been  celebrating 
Bonfire  Night  early  —  it’s  not  until  next  week,  folks!  But  I  can 
promise a wet night tonight.” 

Mr.  Dursley  sat  frozen  in  his  armchair.  Shooting  stars  all  over 
Britain?  Owls  flying  by  daylight?  Mysterious  people  in  cloaks  all 
over the place? And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters . . . 
 

(cid:145) 6 (cid:145) 

THE  BOY  WHO  LIVED 

Mrs.  Dursley  came  into  the  living  room  carrying  two  cups  of 
tea. It was no good. He’d have to say something to her. He cleared 
his throat nervously. “Er — Petunia, dear — you haven’t heard from 
your sister lately, have you?” 

As he had expected, Mrs. Dursley looked shocked and angry. Af-

ter all, they normally pretended she didn’t have a sister. 

“No,” she said sharply. “Why?” 
“Funny  stuff  on  the  news,”  Mr.  Dursley  mumbled.  “Owls  .  .  . 
shooting stars . . . and there were a lot of funny-looking people in 
town today . . .” 

“So?” snapped Mrs. Dursley. 
“Well,  I  just  thought  .  .  .  maybe  .  .  .  it  was  something  to  do 

with . . . you know . . . her crowd.” 

Mrs.  Dursley  sipped  her  tea  through  pursed  lips.  Mr.  Dursley 
wondered whether he dared tell her he’d heard the name “Potter.” 
He decided he didn’t dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could, 
“Their son — he’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?” 

“I suppose so,” said Mrs. Dursley stiffly. 
“What’s his name again? Howard, isn’t it?” 
“Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.” 
“Oh,  yes,”  said  Mr.  Dursley,  his  heart  sinking  horribly.  “Yes,  I 

quite agree.” 

He didn’t say another word on the subject as they went upstairs 
to  bed.  While  Mrs.  Dursley  was  in  the  bathroom,  Mr.  Dursley 
crept to the bedroom window and peered down into the front gar-
den.  The  cat  was  still  there.  It  was  staring  down  Privet  Drive  as 
though it were waiting for something. 

Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do  

 

(cid:145) 7 (cid:145) 

CHAPTER  ONE 

with the Potters? If it did . . . if it got out that they were related to 
a pair of — well, he didn’t think he could bear it. 

The Dursleys got into bed. Mrs. Dursley fell asleep quickly but 
Mr.  Dursley  lay  awake,  turning  it  all  over  in  his  mind.  His  last, 
comforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if the Potters 
were involved, there was no reason for them to come near him and 
Mrs.  Dursley.  The  Potters  knew  very  well  what  he  and  Petunia 
thought about them and their kind. . . . He couldn’t see how he 
and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going 
on — he yawned and turned over — it couldn’t affect them. . . . 

How very wrong he was. 
Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but 
the cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was 
sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far cor-
ner  of  Privet  Drive.  It  didn’t  so  much  as  quiver  when  a  car  door 
slammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. 
In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all. 

A  man  appeared  on  the  corner  the  cat  had  been  watching,  ap-
peared  so  suddenly  and  silently  you’d  have  thought  he’d  just 
popped out of the ground. The cat’s tail twitched and its eyes nar-
rowed. 

Nothing  like  this  man  had  ever  been  seen  on  Privet  Drive.  He 
was  tall,  thin,  and  very  old,  judging  by  the  silver  of  his  hair  and 
beard, which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. He was 
wearing  long  robes,  a  purple  cloak  that  swept  the  ground,  and 
high-heeled,  buckled  boots.  His  blue  eyes  were  light,  bright,  and 
sparkling  behind  half-moon  spectacles  and  his  nose  was  very  long 
and  crooked,  as  though  it  had  been  broken  at  least  twice.  This 
man’s name was Albus Dumbledore. 

(cid:145) 8 (cid:145) 

THE  BOY  WHO  LIVED 

Albus Dumbledore didn’t seem to realize that he had just arrived 
in a street where everything from his name to his boots was unwel-
come.  He  was  busy  rummaging  in  his  cloak,  looking  for  some-
thing. But he did seem to realize he was being watched, because he 
looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at him from 
the  other  end  of  the  street.  For  some  reason,  the  sight  of  the  cat 
seemed to amuse him. He chuckled  and  muttered,  “I  should  have 
known.” 

He  found  what  he  was  looking  for  in  his  inside  pocket.  It 
seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. He flicked it open, held it up 
in the air, and clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with a 
little pop. He clicked it again — the next lamp flickered into dark-
ness.  Twelve  times  he  clicked  the  Put-Outer,  until  the  only  lights 
left  on  the  whole  street  were  two  tiny  pinpricks  in  the  distance, 
which were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyone looked out 
of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley, they wouldn’t 
be able to see anything that was happening down on the pavement. 
Dumbledore  slipped  the  Put-Outer  back  inside  his  cloak  and  set 
off down the street toward number four, where he sat down on the 
wall  next  to  the  cat.  He  didn’t  look  at  it,  but  after  a  moment  he 
spoke to it. 

“Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.” 
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was 
smiling  at  a  rather  severe-looking  woman  who  was  wearing  square 
glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its 
eyes. She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair 
was drawn into a tight bun. She looked distinctly ruffled. 

“How did you know it was me?” she asked. 
“My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly.” 

(cid:145) 9 (cid:145) 

